== Description ==

The UP1-Controller2040 is part of the [[OpenKNX UP1]] system and holds KNX-Connector, BCU, a RP2040 DualCore Cortex M0 MCU, 16MB QSPI Flash, Prog Button, Prog LED, a debug interface and lots of GPIO to connect to the application.

There are also two footprints for a I2C temperature sensor and a I2C EEPROM.

Especially for, but not limited to, using GPIO as I2C, there are some footprints for optional pull up resistors.

== Schematic ==

* [https://github.com/OpenKNX/OpenKNX-UP1 V00.02]

== Pictures ==

== USB/SWD interface ==

To connect the UP1-Controller2040 to your computer for debugging or loading firmware, there is a 7pin interface with the USB lines, power and SWD. Be carefull, the 5V from USB have to be lowered to 3.3V externally.

For your convinience, there is the [[UP1-Progger]] with a USB connector.

Be carefull: never connect to USB and KNX simultaneously without using a USB isolater.

== Sourcing  ==

You can get kits with almost all parts already be soldered [http://shop.sirsydom.de here] for a donation

== Final assembly ==

There are some parts that must be soldered by the user:
* D100 - SMAJ supressor diode, polarity does not matter
* J100 - soldering pins for the KNX connector
* GN100 - 01x07 2.54mm SMD pin header for connecting the [[NanoBCU]]
* J101 - 01x08 1.27mm THT pin header for connecting the [[UP1-Progger]]


Optional parts, not included in the kit. 

* R109 - R116: 0805 SMD resistors
* U102 - SOT23-6 I2C EEPROM
* U103 - TMP100 SOT23-5 I2C temperature sensor
